Well, this day has finally arrived, and you've made it.
Now, for some of you, it is a return trip home.
For others, you're off to a new home.
But no matter where you're going, one thing is for sure, and that is all of you, all
of you are about to begin a new chapter in your life.
Now, while that realization can spark feelings of excitement, it can also spark a little
anxiety as well.
Questions may be swirling in your mind.
Who really am I now?
Will I be able to fulfill all that would be expected of me?
Can I really do this?
If you find any of these feelings bubbling up inside of you, then remember this.
You are not alone.
Throughout time, faithful servants of God have had those same feelings.
Let's take a closer look at one of them by turning to the Bible book that bears his
name, Jeremiah.
Jeremiah, chapter 1, notice what he says beginning in verse 4.
He said, the word of Jehovah came to me saying, before I formed you in the womb, I knew you.
And before you were born, I sanctified you.
I made you a prophet to the nations.
And I was Jeremiah flattered by the fact that Jehovah saw such potential in him, quite
the opposite.
Notice his response in verse 6, but I said, alas, O sovereign Lord, Jehovah, I do not know
how to speak for I am just a boy.
In other words, I do not think I am qualified for what you are asking me to do.
But notice what Jehovah does, verse 9.
Then Jehovah stretched out his hand and touched my mouth.
And Jehovah said to me, I have put my words in your mouth.
Jehovah was reassuring, Jeremiah, don't worry, I have got this and you.
Well the nervous prophet accepted his assignment, and admittedly it was not always easy.
At times he met with fierce opposition, he was mobbed, imprisoned, left to die in the mud
at the bottom of an empty system, clearly he went through a lot.
And at one point he even thought about quitting.
Notice what he says in chapter 20, chapter 20, the middle of verse 8.
He said for me, the word of Jehovah has been the cause of insults and jeering all day long.
So I said, I am not going to make mention of him and I will speak no more in his name.
Like Jeremiah, we too may have our moments when we feel like giving up is the answer.
But let's read on the middle of verse 9, but in my heart, it, the message that he had
been proclaiming, it became like a burning fire shut up in my bones.
And I was tired of holding it in.
I could no longer endure it.
Now what happened here?
Despite the hardships, clearly the boy had become the bold prophet of Jehovah.
But my question to you is how did that happen?
Jeremiah himself tells us at verse 11.
He says, Jehovah was with me like a fearsome warrior.
And with the fearsome warrior at his side, Jeremiah went from being unable to speak to being
unable to hold it in.
He experienced a 180 degree change.
And he knew exactly who was responsible for it.
He tells us in our theme scripture text for this talk, same chapter, chapter 20 verse 7.
He says, you, you have fooled me, oh Jehovah, and I, I was fooled.
You used your strength against me and you prevailed.
Jehovah had fooled Jeremiah in a positive way.
And Jeremiah reached what he thought was his limit.
Jehovah proved stronger than Jeremiah's weaknesses and empowered him to continue.
He was able to make the 180 because he first of all accepted the assignment.
Secondly, he trusted in Jehovah.
And third, he allowed time for God's spirit to work on him.
And if you think Jeremiah was an isolated case, think again, Moses did the 180.
He went from a man's slow of speech to becoming a mighty leader of an entire nation.
Jonah did the 180.
He went from a man running away from his assignment in the opposite direction to becoming a bold
preacher to the Ninevites.
Peter did the 180.
He went from denying the Christ three times to becoming the rock that Jesus always knew
he could be.
So what about you?
Have you ever been fooled by Jehovah?
I'd like to read to you a few words that I recently received from a Gilead graduate.
She said this.
And we heard the news that we were being assigned to a country that had its fair share
of poverty, instability, and sickness.
I felt like saying to Jehovah, are you sure you want to send me there?
I don't like bugs.
And I'm scared of being sick.
When the date of our departure came, I still remember all the tears I shed when saying
goodbye to my home and friends.
Well she accepted their assignment, time went by, several years later, she and her husband
received a new assignment to serve in a different country.
Notice what she says next.
If I thought leaving the United States was the hardest thing I would ever do, I was
completely fooled.
Because the sadness I felt when I had to leave those new friends was indescribable.
I had never cried so much in my life.
She goes on to sum up her experience this way.
She said, Jehovah taught me a lesson in the most loving way.
Before Gilead, I was putting myself in a box, the what I can do box.
But I wasn't thinking that the person who knows best where I fit is Jehovah.
Is as if he said, you're not only going to adapt to your new assignment, you're going
to love it so much you will never want to leave.
And that's exactly what happened.
I came to truly love the people in our assignment and I can honestly say that these past few
years have been some of my happiest.
Now I'm not so afraid of change as before.
I just trust in Jehovah, trusting in the process.
Amazing, isn't it?
She too made the 180.
She had been fooled by Jehovah just like Jeremiah and she came out stronger and happier
as a result.
Why did that happen?
Because when we are fooled by Jehovah, three significant things happen.
First, we draw closer to Him.
Secondly, we discover new joys that perhaps we never saw coming.
And third, we open the door to receiving additional training from Jehovah.
In conclusion, just love the people.
Then they will love you.
Then you will love your assignment.
Be willing to walk through the doors wherever they take you.
If the fearsome warrior by your side, you cannot fail.
Always welcome the chance to be fooled by Jehovah.
Because it means that you are about to experience something pretty magnificent and guess what?
It has been tailor-made just for you.